# Terraform AWS Infrastructure Setup for DevOps

## Overview

This Terraform configuration sets up a basic AWS infrastructure tailored for a DevOps environment. It provisions a virtual private cloud (VPC), subnets, an internet gateway, and route tables, along with EC2 instances specifically for running DevOps tools such as Jenkins and Ansible. Security groups are configured to ensure access to these services over the internet.

## Requirements

- **Terraform**: This project uses Terraform to automate the creation of AWS resources. Ensure you have Terraform installed on your machine.
- **AWS Account**: An active AWS account is required. Set up your AWS credentials locally by configuring the AWS CLI or by setting environment variables.
- **SSH Key**: A key pair named `devops-key` should be available in your AWS region to allow SSH access to the EC2 instances.

## Configuration Details

1. **Provider Configuration**: The AWS provider is configured for the `us-east-1` region.

2. **Resources**:
   - **AWS VPC**: A virtual private cloud with a CIDR block of `10.1.0.0/16`.
   - **Subnets**: Two public subnets are created within the VPC in different availability zones for high availability.
   - **Internet Gateway**: An internet gateway attached to the VPC for internet access.
   - **Route Tables and Associations**: Route tables are configured to direct traffic to the internet gateway.
   - **Security Groups**: Configured to allow SSH access on port 22 and Jenkins access on port 8080 from any IP address.
   - **EC2 Instances**: Three instances are provisioned with different roles: `jenkins-master`, `build-slave`, and `ansible`. These instances use the AMI `ami-04b70fa74e45c3917`, which should be available in the specified region and support the `t2.micro` instance type. Each instance requires a `key_name` to be set to the name of your SSH key pair. Replace `"devops-key"` with your key pair name in the configuration.

## Usage

1. **Initialization**:
   ```bash
   terraform init
   ```
   
## Plan
Generate and show an execution plan, detailing the actions Terraform will execute based on the current configuration:


   ```bash
   terraform init
   ```
   
## Apply

Apply the changes required to reach the desired state of the configuration, or the pre-determined set of actions generated by a terraform plan execution plan:



   ```bash
   terraform apply
   ```   
 
 ## Important Notes
  - **Security**: The security group settings in this configuration allow traffic from any IP address for SSH and Jenkins. For production environments, it's advisable to restrict these to known IPs to ensure security.
   - **Costs**: Be aware of potential costs associated with running the resources specified in these configurations. Review AWS pricing and manage resources accordingly.
   - **Verification**: Always use terraform plan to verify changes before applying them, especially in production environments.
   